# Blog Post
### By Gary Gullage

Humanities is not a science, there’s a damn good reason that universities separate my credits in the humanities from my credits in the sciences because they are both very different. Sciences look at people, that planet, wildlife, whatever the science is based on, and they study their physical characteristics using pre-established data sets to study and create new data from the data given. Humanities studies people, the planet, wildlife, whatever your study is focused on, and studies their culture, history, philosophy, the things that make life not boring, what people, artists, authors, historians, seek to create to provoke feelings from others, that is what humanities studies, so as such, I would argue that humanities should not study from quantitative research, because quantitative research goes against what humanities is about, studying human culture.
I’ll start my point with a quote from Franco Moretti "I began this chapter by saying that quantitative data are useful because they are independent of interpretation; then, that they are challenging because they often demand an interpretation that transcends the quantitative realm; now, most radically, we see them falsify existing theoretical explanations and ask for a theory, not so much of 'the' novel, but of a whole family of novelistic forms. A theory of diversity" (Graphs 30), as you can see, human culture changes too quickly for quantitative data to hold any ground, sure it’s good to keep history books to look back on how we’ve changed, that can’t be argued, but study of humanities at the moment should be done entirely with interpretive data, and no two humanists should use the same data, which both removes the potential of data being falsified by new occurrences, as well as allows for far more diverse theory and study, as having no data encourages humanists to find all kinds of new data as opposed to getting hung up over pre-existing quantitative data.  Look at all the advances that humanists had before quantitative data was common-plac. Look at Da Vinci’s inventions and paintings for example, do you think that Da Vinci would have made all the things he did if he was constantly comparing it back and forth with the data that others have made? Would the Mona Lisa have been painted differently had Da Vinci been constantly comparing himself to others rather than just going for it and trusting himself? We’ll never know, but the point is that comparing yourself to another is a bad practice, you are your own person, thats been a big point among humanists and human culture for forever, be yourself, be expressive, and by having all this quantitative data, we’re killing that, and that’s why quantitative data should be abolished in the field.
The invention of computers revolutionized the human race as a whole, and it especially impacted the sciences, as they now had a fantastic tool for storing and comparing data, and when the sciences started using computers, humanists started using them too, because it’s far easier to find an E-Book in a database than a book in a library, but from there, computers caused a sort of paradigm shift with humanists, causing them to study data quantitatively just like scientists do, and to quote “Humanities 2.0: Promise, Perils, Predictions” By Cathy N. Davidson, “Perhaps we need a paradigm shift. Perhaps we need to see technology and the humanities not as a binary but as two sides of a necessarily interdependent, conjoined, and mutually constitutive set of intellectual, educational, social, political, and economic practices. More to the point, we need to acknowledge how much the massive computational abilities that have transformed the sciences have also changed our field in ways large and small and hold possibilities for far greater transformation in three areas- ---research, writing, and teaching--- that matter most. We are not exempt from the technological changes of our era, and we need to take greater responsibility for them. We should be thinking about them critically, considering what they mean for us, and working to shape them to the future that we desire”, not only does Cathy reiterate my point that humanists have begun to rely too much on computers, but she makes several points that I agree with, humanities needs a paradigm shift again to bring it back to the interpretive, on-your-toes style research that doesn’t rely on quantitative data.
So in conclusion, humanists need to do more to separate the fields of humanities from the fields of science, because humanities is not a science, it stands on its own as an independent form of research around human culture, philosophy, etc. and should be seen as such, and the first step towards this change is to remove externally-produced, quantitative data from the field, have all of it abolished, and move to interpretive data that is unique to each humanist to not only expand the field with many new findings from people discovering new things rather than restating old finds, and separate humanities as a whole from the link it’s had with sciences since the invention of computers.

Works Cited:
Davidson, Cathy N. “Humanities 2.0: Promise, Perils, Predictions.” PMLA, vol. 123, no. 3, 2008, pp. 707–717. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/25501892.
Steven Ramsay. Reading Machines: Toward an Algorithmic Criticism. Champaign IL: University of Illinois Press. 2011. ISBN 978-0-252-03641-5 (Cloth) 978-0-252-07820-0 (Paper).

